Lab Code of Conduct
===================

All members of the lab, along with visitors, are expected to agree with the
following code of conduct. We will enforce this code as needed. We expect
cooperation from all members to help ensuring a safe environment for everybody.

The Quick Version
-----------------

The lab is dedicated to providing a harassment-free experience for everyone,
regardless of gender, gender identity and expression, age, sexual orientation,
disability, physical appearance, body size, race, or religion (or lack
thereof). We do not tolerate harassment of lab members in any form. Sexual
language and imagery is generally not appropriate for any lab venue, including
lab meetings, presentations, or discussions.

The Less Quick Version
----------------------

Harassment includes offensive verbal comments related to gender, gender
identity and expression, age, sexual orientation, disability, physical
appearance, body size, race, religion, sexual images in public spaces,
deliberate intimidation, stalking, following, harassing photography or
recording, sustained disruption of talks or other events, inappropriate
physical contact, and unwelcome sexual attention.

Members asked to stop any harassing behavior are expected to comply
immediately.

If you are being harassed, notice that someone else is being harassed, or have
any other concerns, please contact `Matthew Turk <mjturk@illinois.edu>`_
immediately.  If Matt is the cause of your concern, TODOTODO is a good informal
point of contact; she does not work for Matt or UIUC, and has agreed to
mediate.  For official concerns, please contact `the UIUC WeCare office
<http://wecare.illinois.edu/>`_, or the `Campus Office of Diversity, Equity and
Access <http://diversity.illinois.edu/>`_.

We expect members to follow these guidelines at any lab-related event.

Original source and credit: http://2012.jsconf.us/#/about & The Ada Initiative.
Please help by translating or improving:
http://github.com/leftlogic/confcodeofconduct.com. This work is licensed under
a Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 Unported License.  This text was adapted
from that used in the `Data Intensive Biology Lab
<http://ivory.idyll.org/lab/>`_, developed by C. Titus Brown.

