Mission Statement
=================

Short Version
-------------

We seek to develop and utilize innovative, interdisciplinary tools for data
analysis and visualization, to support the scholarly pursuits of ourselves and
others and to build a strong community engaged in participatory inquiry.

Long Version
------------

The DXL was formed in the Spring of 2015 as a result of funding from the Gordon
and Betty Moore Foundation through the Data Driven Discovery Investigator
program in a grant to Matthew Turk, under the title "Changing How We Conduct
Inquiry" (`proposal
<http://figshare.com/articles/Matthew_Turk_Moore_DDD_Semifinalist_App/1030298>`_
and `presentation <http://figshare.com/articles/Scaling_Discovery/1189365>`_)
We are also grateful for funding from the National Science Foundation under the
SI2-SSE program to develop the yt project (`proposal
<http://figshare.com/articles/SI2_SSE_yt_Reusable_Components_for_Simulating_Analyzing_and_Visualizing_Astrophysical_Systems/909413>`_).

In our vision of the future of data analysis, scientists should no longer have
to struggle to understand their **data**.  They should be struggling to
understand their **discoveries**.  Moore's Law will push processing power
another order of magnitude in the next five years; we aim to make **discovery**
an order of magnitude faster.

The difficulty in simply asking questions of data has begun to dominate the
cost of conducting scientific inquiry.  In our lab, we focus on reducing the
**technical friction** between a scientist and data, on enabling new classes of
questions to be asked, and on empowering scientists to explore data sets
without apprehension of scale.  This will take the form not only of technical
development, but engaging in discussions of community development, diversity
growth, and the sustainability of scientific software.  More than developing a
software package or set of packages, this is an entire approach to scientific
inquiry.

Crucial to developing and implementing this approach to scientific inquiry is
that our products must be publicly developed, openly and freely available, and
supported by community engagement that is designed to empower and support
individuals.  This extends both within the lab and beyond it; within the lab,
we will foster a collaborative lab environment in which individuals feel
comfortable sharing data, struggles, successes, and technologies.

The three key goals we intend to accomplish:

 * *Broader*: We believe that scientific analysis should be interdisciplinary.
   Technologies should be spread between domains.
 * *Deeper*: Individuals should be able to ask questions of their data that are
   complex, detailed, and non-trivial with ease.
 * *Further*: The process of applying analysis to data should be simplified and
   made accessible to all communities, through the utilization of data sharing
   and analysis systems.

Finally, a crucial aspect of this is the success of individual lab members
pursuing their *own* scholarly inquiry.  The advancement of tools and
technologies will be coupled with their application; postdocs and graduate
students will be encouraged to continue projects that generate data, for
instance in studying the formation of stars and galaxies, seismic wave
propagation, structural integrity of manufactured materials, digital
humanities, and other scholarly pursuits.

Core Values
-----------

Guiding this mission are a number of values that are core to our operations.

 * Diversity: A diversity of many voices is essential for
   not only the success of the scholarly community but the well-being of any
   individual collaboration.
 * Collaboration: Community and collaboration are key to
   sustaining success in scholarly inquiry.  We will collaborate both within
   the lab and with external individuals.
 * Empowerment & development: Software can be a tool to provide self-direction
   for researchers, enabling self-development and growth.
 * Collegiality & humanity: A healthy community is one in which respect,
   kindness, and empathy are guiding forces, as well as appropriate humor,
   collegiality and friendship.
 * Technology: Technology can be applied to inquiry, but is not
   necessarily an end in and of itself.
 * Application: Development of tools and infrastructure should be guided by
   those who apply it, and the best way to ensure we are guided is to be
   leading the charge in conducting scholarly inquiry for our own research
   goals.
 * Sharing: Data, code and other digital research objects should be shared
   whenever possible, in ways that enable reuse and discovery.

DXL and yt
----------

The Data Exploration Lab's goals are independent of those of the `yt project
<http://yt-project.org/>`_.  However, ``yt`` may be an appropriate platform to
guide them or develop them, particularly as there is a great deal of internal
experience with ``yt`` in the DXL.  As such, ``yt`` can be explored as a
delivery platform for algorithms, interdisciplinary collaborations, and
advanced inquiry methods before other platforms.

Whenever development or application of ``yt`` is conducted within the lab, it
will follow the community standards of the ``yt`` community, including code
review, YTEP preparation, and participation in the mainline code repository.
